## NOTES ON CREATING THE PREBUILT LIBRARIES ##

Start with a fresh older image of the linux you want to use.  These were made
with Ubuntu 14.04.1, because that's what the build was being used to run the
old MinGW cross-compiler.

First, install the cross-compiler.  It can live on the same system that has
ordinary gcc; the executables have funny names to distinguish them:

    sudo apt-get install binutils-mingw-w64-i686
    sudo apt-get install gcc-mingw-w64-i686
    sudo apt-get install mingw-w64

Add git if you don't already have it:

    sudo apt-get install git

Then clone ZeroMQ into a directory (this creates `libzmq/`).

    git clone https://github.com/zeromq/libzmq.git

You will need to edit the ZeroMQ %src/windows.hpp file to add a MinGW-specific
include to provide SOCKADDR_IN6 (which modern winsock.h in Visual Studio has
already defined by default).  So look for:

    #include <winsock.h>
    #include <winsock2.h>
    #include <windows.h>
    #include <mswsock.h>
    #include <iphlpapi.h>

And change it to:

    #include <winsock.h>
    #include <winsock2.h>
    #include <ws2ipdef.h> // https://github.com/pocoproject/poco/issues/1603
    #include <windows.h>
    #include <mswsock.h>
    #include <iphlpapi.h>

The ZeroMQ build process requires several things just to get the `configure`
shell script generated:

    sudo apt-get install build-essential
    sudo apt-get install autotools
    sudo apt-get install libtool
    sudo apt-get install pkg-config

First you have to "autogen", running the shell script to create what automake
will use:

    ./autogen.sh

Then you need to run automake itself:

    automake

Now configure.  The `--host` option to configure should be enough to get it to
find the cross-compiling MinGW that was installed.  If you want a 32-bit build
then use the "i686" variant:

    ./configure --host=i686-w64-mingw32 --enable-static --disable-shared

For 64-bit builds use "x86_64" (a.k.a. amd64):

    ./configure --host=x86_64-w64-mingw32 --enable-static --disable-shared

That should give you a `Makefile`.  So, now build it.

    make

By default ZeroMQ puts the obj build products into the %src/ directory, then
sneaks the library itself (%.a file) into the hidden %src/.lib directory.

The file is way large, but you cannot simply `strip` a static lib and have it
still work.  You can only strip the unneeded information, so:

    strip --strip-unneeded src/libzmq.a


## COMPILING WITH THE PREBUILT LIBRARIES ##

One thing to note is that ZeroMQ is built with C++, something the author
later regretted:

http://250bpm.com/blog:4

There's no obvious instructions for how to get a static library in a cross
compiled mingw `.a` file to embed the standard C++ library and libpthread
dependencies, such that a plain C program can easily link to it.  While it's
possible, for now the easiest thing to do is to just use the C++ compiler to
build and link Rebol and pass the static linking switches:

       -static-libgcc // static C runtime
       -Wl,-Bstatic -lstdc++ // static C++ runtime

The rebmake-based build process still needs a lot of work to make it possible
for the various extensions to weave their dependencies together to build a
coherent executable.  To be fair, it's not very elegant in *any* build system.

For now an ad-hoc build was created with something like the following:

    ./r3-linux-x64-368bd5a make.r \
        config: configs/mingw-x64-c++.r \
        extensions: "ZeroMQ + Clipboard + ODBC + Debugger - GIF - View -" \
        standard: c++11 \
        cflags: "[{-DZMQ_STATIC} \
            {-I../external/zmq-prebuilt/mingw64/include/}]" \
        debug: asserts \
        optimize: 2 \
        target: makefile

The makefile needed a few tweaks, with these things added to the link line.
(For each line, the order matters; e.g. zmq needs dependent libraries after.)

    -L../external/zmq-prebuilt/mingw64/lib -lzmq -lws2_32 -liphlpapi
    -static-libgcc
    -Wl,-Bstatic -lstdc++

Also, `-lwsock32` had to be removed when `-lws2_32` was added.

NOTE: A bug was found related to setjmp when building 64-bit code on this old
MinGW, which had to be patched around.  See SET_JUMP and LONG_JUMP macros.


## NEXT STEP: CONTINUOUS INTEGRATION ##

This was a nuisance, but the next step after this ad-hoc build is to use the
prebuilt libs to get a continuously-integrated ZeroMQ cross-compiled on Linux
servers to Windows.  That would be a good time to review lots of issues, like
what kind of overhaul of the build system is needed to support this kind of
complexity for an extension.

For now, the one-off build is a proof of concept that Visual Studio is not
necessary to make a Windows executable including ZeroMQ.
